[DOCU-1621][DOCU-1638] Konnect: Okta IdP integration (#3045)
Kong/docs.konghq.com: app/konnect/org-management/okta-idp.md

    1. In both the **Sign-in redirect URIs** and
**Sign-out redirect URIs** fields, enter:

        <pre><code>https://<div contenteditable="true">{YOUR_KONNECT_APP_DOMAIN}</div>/login</code></pre>

        Replace `{YOUR_KONNECT_APP_DOMAIN}` with your own domain.
1. Save your settings to generate connection details.

    Leave this page open. You'll need the details here to configure your Konnect
    Cloud account.

### Set the default IdP for {{site.konnect_saas}}

1. In a separate browser tab, log in to [{{site.konnect_saas}}](https://konnect.konghq.com).
1. Open ![settings icon](/assets/images/icons/konnect/konnect-settings.svg){:.inline .no-image-expand}
**Settings**, then **Identity Management**.
1. Select **Okta**.
1. Copy and paste the **Client ID** and **Client Secret** from your Okta
application into {{site.konnect_saas}}.

    See the [Okta developer documentation](https://developer.okta.com/docs/guides/find-your-app-credentials/findcreds/)
    to learn more about client credentials in Okta.

1. Copy the **Okta domain** from your Okta application, then paste it into
the **Issuer URL** field in {{site.konnect_short_name}}.

> 1. Save your changes.

Author: Can you do a comma-separated list of groups to map to one Konnect role?

> 1. Save your changes.

Reviewer: Not yet! Hopefully, in the near future.

    question in CSV format, then importing the CSV file to populate the new group.

1. Click **Create** to save. Add another claim, this time for user login
information:

    Field | Value
    ---|---
    Name | `login_email`
    Include in token type | ID token, Always
    Value type | Expression
    Value | `user.login`
    Include in | Choose **The following scopes** and select `openid`

    This claim uses user emails to map users to Konnect login instances.

1. Click **Create** to save the second claim.

If you have problems setting up these claims, refer to the Okta documentation
for troubleshooting:
* [Adding a `groups` claim](https://developer.okta.com/docs/guides/customize-tokens-groups-claim/add-groups-claim-custom-as/)
* [Adding a custom claim](https://developer.okta.com/docs/guides/customize-tokens-returned-from-okta/add-custom-claim/) named

### Test claims and find groups for mapping

1. Open the **Token Preview** tab.

2. Select your client, set **Grant Type** to Authorization Code, and choose an Okta user to test the claim with.

3. Set the scope to `openid`, then click **Preview Token**.

> 4. In the generated preview, check to make sure that `groups` and `user_email`

Author: 🤦‍♀️  It was even correct in the previous section.

    information.

    You can now manage your org's user permissions entirely from the Okta
    application.

1. (Optional) Under **Logout Behavior**, enable Single Logout (SLO) by checking
the box.

    If this option is enabled, signing out from Konnect also signs users out of
    their Okta session.

1. Save your changes.

1. Confirm that you want to change your identity provider to Okta.

    {:.warning}
    > **Warning:** This change is irreversible. Once you switch to Okta, you
    cannot revert to using native Konnect authentication.

    Once saved, Konnect generates a login URI based on the Organization Login
    Path you set earlier.

## Test the integration
1. Copy your {{site.konnect_short_name}} organization's login URI.

    If you ever need to find the path again, you can always find it under
    ![](/assets/images/icons/konnect/konnect-settings.svg){:.inline .no-image-expand}
     **Settings > Identity Management**, then copy **Organization Login URI** from this page.

1. Using an account that belongs to one of the groups you just mapped
(for example, an account belonging to the `service_admin` group in Okta), log

> in with your Okta credentials.

Author: I was missing a step here, which is to paste said URI into an address bar.

---
title: Set Up SSO with Okta
no_version: true
badge: enterprise
---

As an alternative to {{site.konnect_saas}}’s native authentication, you can set
up single sign-on (SSO) access to {{site.konnect_short_name}} through
[Okta](https://developer.okta.com/docs/guides/) with
[OpenID Connect](https://developer.okta.com/docs/concepts/oauth-openid/#openid-connect).

> This way, your users can log in to {{site.konnect_saas}}

Author: ```suggestion
This authentication method allows your users to log in to {{site.konnect_saas}}
```
Slight adjustment to the suggestion so I can bulk commit.

---
title: Set Up Okta IdP Authentication
no_version: true
badge: enterprise
---

> As an alternative to Konnect Cloud’s native basic authentication, you can set up

Reviewer 2: I would remove the word "basic" and just say 'native authentication'

> org access through Okta. This way, your users can log in to Konnect Cloud

Reviewer 2: "you can setup access to Konnect through Okta" instead of "org access through"

using their Okta credentials, and without needing a separate login.

You can't mix authenticators in Konnect Cloud. With Okta IdP
authentication enabled, all non-admin Konnect users will subsequently log in

> through Okta. Only Konnect admins can continue to log in with basic

Reviewer 2: Technically, only the org owner will be able to login using Konnect authentication. i.e. the person that signed up for the account originally.

authentication.

> This feature is only available with Kong Konnect Enterprise.

## Prerequisites
* [**Organization Admin**](/konnect/reference/org-management/#role-definitions)
permissions in Konnect Cloud

> * [Okta developer account](https://developer.okta.com/)

Reviewer 2: I would say you need access to the Okta configuration for your organization. In our demos we say you need Okta developer access because we've been using a sandbox environment for Okta. However, customers like Vanguard will need to have access to their production Okta environment (or will need to work with the team that does).

## Set up Okta IdP Auth

### Prepare the Okta application

Create a new application in Okta to manage Konnect Cloud account integration.

> 1. Sign in to your [Okta developer account](https://developer.okta.com/).

Reviewer 2: Again change this from developer to "Sign into you Okta account"

1. From the left menu, select **Applications**, then **Create Integration**.
1. Select the application type:
    1. Under **Sign-on method**, select **OIDC - OpenID Connect**.
    1. Under **Application Type**, select **Web Application**.
1. Click **Next**. Configure the application:
    1. Create a unique name for your application.
    1. Under **Grant Type**, select **Authorization Code**.
    1. In both the **Sign-in redirect URIs** and
**Sign-out redirect URIs** fields, enter:

      `https://<div contenteditable="true">{YOUR_KONNECT_APP_DOMAIN}</div>/login`.

      Replace `{YOUR_KONNECT_APP_DOMAIN}` with your own domain.

> 1. Save your settings to generate connection details.

Author: Good question - this is specifically an Okta config choice and has no bearing on the Konnect side. I can mention it with a "choose any option" description.

    Leave this page open. You'll need the details here to configure your Konnect
    Cloud account.

### Set the default IdP for Konnect Cloud

1. In a separate browser tab, log in to [Konnect Cloud](https://konnect.konghq.com).
1. Open ![settings icon](/assets/images/icons/konnect/konnect-settings.svg){:.inline .no-image-expand}
**Settings**, then **Identity Management**.
1. Select **Okta**.
1. Copy and paste the **Client ID** and **Client Secret** from your Okta
application into Konnect Cloud.

    See the [Okta developer documentation](https://developer.okta.com/docs/guides/find-your-app-credentials/findcreds/)
    to learn more about client credentials in Okta.

1. Create the **Issuer URL**:
    1. Copy the **Okta domain** from your Okta application.

>     1. Paste it into the **Issuer** field in Konnect using the following format:

Reviewer 2: This step has been simplified in the Konnect UI so you actually only need to add the Okta domain now. No need to append the other path to it.

        `https://<div contenteditable="true">{OKTA_DOMAIN}</div>/oauth2/default`
1. Save your changes.

> 1. Copy the generated login URL.

Reviewer 2: This URL will no longer be generated for users. We will allow admins to set a specific login URL that they define. This is a new feature that is being added (not yet in dev, though). Nate and Dustin are working on this now.

Author: Will update this step once I get concrete info on this one.

Author: What are the format requirements for this field? Is this path going to be appended to their domain, or do they need to include their org domain in the path? 
For example, can I enter `/login` or do I need to put `myorg-konnect.konghq.com/login`?

Author: From ticket: How do I know what my organizational login path is? Answer: this can be any value you like, for example, vanguard-dev results in https://konnect.konghq.com/login/vanguard-dev. The only restriction is that it be unique (no other orgs using it) and non-null (field is required)

    This is your organization's new login URL. Provide this URL to users to let them
    log in to Konnect with Okta.

1. Paste the URL into a browser window.

    This should load an Okta application login screen.

1. Log in with your Okta credentials.

### Enable Konnect Cloud as a dashboard app in Okta

If you want your users to have easy access to Konnect Cloud alongside their other apps,
you can add it to your Okta dashboard.

1. Sign in to your [Okta developer account](https://developer.okta.com/).
1. Click **Applications**, then open your Konnect Cloud Okta application.
1. Scroll to **General Settings** and click **Edit** to configure the following:
    1. **Grant Type**: Select the **Implicit (Hybrid)** checkbox.
    1. **Login Initiated by**: Select **Either Okta or App** from the dropdown.
    1. **Aplication visibility**: Select **Display application icon to users**.
    1. **Initiate login URI**: Paste your organization's login URL.
        You can find this URL in Konnect Cloud under **Settings** >

>         **Identity Management**.

Reviewer 2: I think we need to add a section to this topic to describe how to setup the proper OIDC claims to be sent from Okta to Konnect. They are outlined in this doc https://docs.google.com/document/d/1fsF9vzmEfUKt4yHdsWQhOrw4QDJnPouV8kSzhJTMoqg/edit# and I tagged Lena in the appropriate section. The KX team can help walk through these steps if needed.
